---
layout: default
title: About
---
# Munnange

Munnange is a Belgian no-profit organisation running a psychological
counselling centre in Entebbe, Uganda. We counsel people who struggle with a
variety of issues such as alcohol addiction, family violence, abuse, stress
etcetera. Munnange offers easily-accessible and free healthcare both for
individuals and groups.

# History

Research conducted by doctoral students at several Ugandan universities shows
that more and more people are in need of psychological care and support. Over
the past few years Uganda has seen an increase in suicides and violence.
Students and professors face all kinds of problems: family problems, harsh
home situations, sexual problems, emotional problems and health problems
(HIV/Aids) and are calling for help. During our contacts with Nkumba
University in Entebbe we were confronted with the size and consequences of
psychological suffering with little or no easily accessible aid or support at
hand. There is a lack of qualified counsellors, knowhow and an adequate
psychological health care in schools and universities to meet these
psychological and emotional needs.

We are convinced we can make a difference and that is why, in 2011, we created
the non-profit organisation Munnange. Munnange means "my friend" in Luganda,
one of the widely spoken languages in Uganda. In April 2012 Munnange
counselling centre - located on the campus of Nkumba University - officially
opened.

Since then, a lot has happened: we've extended our services to the surrounding
communities of Nkumba University and started collaborations with several
organisations. Our focus is not only limited to students and professors of the
university, but also on the communities, surrounding schools, orphanages, the
police stations and the prison of Entebbe. This comes from our conviction that
everyone deserves the right to accessible, neutral and professional
counselling.

# Mission and vision

Munnange thinks with an open mind with respect for each individual, regardless
of identity, religion or colour.

We personally find it unacceptable to live in a world where intelligent and
motivated people who want to contribute to the development and progress of
their country do not get the chance to do so because they are constantly
preoccupied with worries, personal problems and/or tension in their family.

We want to give Ugandans the chance to call upon qualified and independent
counsellors who can listen to their stories, give them professional
counselling, refer them to other aid organisations or simply give them the
time and space to find some peace and quiet.

Munnange starts from people's own strengths, i.e. we want to reinforce the
competences and strengths that already exist. A society can become much
stronger based on knowledge rather than on pure charity or material aid.

# How

Munnange aims to bring structural rather than individual changes, to meet
holistic rather than individual needs and therefore focuses on the goal to
build and manage general psychological counselling in Uganda:

1. **Munnange Counselling Centre (MCC), a psychological health care centre on the campus of Nkumba University:**

	MCC officially opened in April 2012 and currently we employ two full-time
	Ugandan counsellors: Micheal Nsamba and Jamilah Nantale. Today we mainly
	offer psychological care and support to students of the university but we
	are also easily accessible to the wider communities (outreaching).

	Every last Wednesday of the month MCC organises an info session for
	students at the university. Sessions cover a wide range of subjects, for
	example: life on and after university, alcohol and drug abuse,
	defensibility, relationships... MCC also takes part in several events on
	campus. We explain what Munnange is all about during the orientation week
	for new students and during health week.

	Furthermore, we work together intensively with the health centre at the
	university. The medical staff is convinced that a lot of students that come
	in for medical help are also in need of psychological aid. Therefore the
	hospital refers patients to MCC, hence the valuable cooperation.

1. **Outreach work:**

    Since we started we regularly were approached by external organisations or schools in the neighbourhood of Nkumba University with the request to organise counselling sessions for their target groups. At the moment we have an intense cooperation with several organisations.

    - _Police office in Entebbe and in Abaita_

		Twice a week we offer counselling at the "family department" of the
		Entebbe police office. The local police call upon Jamilah and Micheal
		to help them in difficult family situations such as divorce, abuse,
		violence. We also work together with the police in Abaita, a district
		in Entebbe. They call us when they need our expertise.

    - _Entebbe prison_

		We are in the process of setting up a cooperation with Entebbe prison
		to offer support with the reintegration of detainees into society.

    - _The wider community:_ _Nkumba Bufulu (Kitawuluzi) and Nkumba Bukolwa_

		MCC works together with the headmen or chiefs of these communities. We
		go there every Wednesday afternoon during which time people can consult
		us with any of their questions. .

    - _St Noah Secondary School_

		This school works mainly with children and youngsters from fishing
		families. These families are often torn apart because of alcohol abuse,
		violence and lack of parental commitment. The management of St Noah
		regularly refers children to Munnange Counselling Centre and contacts
		our counsellors to mediate and support them in crisis situations at
		school. Recently the young students of St Noah started the "Munnange
		Club" to raise awareness about counselling. They are taught basic
		skills, how to recognize fellow student who are struggling and how to
		refer them.

    - _Early Learning School_

		This is a shelter and school for orphans, for children whose parents
		are in prison or whose parents have abandoned them. Munnange organises
		both individual and group counselling for them. The children and
		youngsters indicate that these counselling talks give them strength and
		make daily life a little more bearable.

	- ??_Divine Child Primary School and orphanage:_ here we offer the same
	  service and support as at St Noah Secondary school and Early Learning
	  school

    - _May Christian College Nkumba :_ same as Saint Noah Secondary school

    - _Entebbe parents school:_ same as St Noah Secondary school

There is an obvious need for counselling in Uganda. We hope to expand the
outreach work in the future. In cooperation with VIVES University, located in
Belgium, we try to exchange knowledge and expertise by means of guest lectures,
workshops and conferences at Nkumba University to strengthen the course
"psychological guidance and counselling" which in future will lead to a broad
social and professional network and to better qualified counsellors. We also
organise international projects for students who study &quot;Social Work&quot;
and &quot;Applied Psychology&quot; at VIVES University, as part of their
bachelor degree.

# Counselling

Munnange offers counselling in a wide variety of fields, both in group and one
on one.

- Depression (suicidal thoughts)
- Family problems (partner violence, abuse or neglect of children, ?)
- Trauma, stress and mourning
- Alcohol and drug addiction
- Relation problems and sexuality
- Financial worries
- Problems at school or university (problems studying, loneliness, bullying)

# Voluntary work

Are you interested in our project and you want to do some voluntary work? This
is possible! For more information, please send us an email. Together we can
look for a project that creates value for both yourself and our organisation.

